if someone tells you that they have
post-traumatic stress disorder
and that this was caused by their
husband or this was caused by their wife
and that in fact precisely the topic
on which their eyewitness testimony is
completely unreliable
inadmissible in a court of law is this
trauma
that's the source of their complex ptsd
how then do we cope with what they're
telling us
buffy the vampire slayer and angel
actress charisma carpenter claimed
joss whedon's behavior on the set of
those series triggered a chronic
physical condition
from which i still suffer fellow buffy
actress michelle trackenberg
wrote a post that said in part i am
brave enough now as a 35 year old woman
to repost this trackenberg later edited
the post by adding
the last comment i will make on this was
there was a rule saying he's not allowed
in a room
alone with michelle again
i think we're all suitably cynical
when one person accuses another of being
insane
i think we all know what to do i think
we all know
how to skeptically weigh in the balance
the claim of a divorced angry woman
that her ex-husband is insane or
vice versa boyfriends girlfriends gay
couples doesn't matter
when people are angry at one another
when they feel betrayed when they want
revenge
one of the first insults one of the most
common insults is to say
this person is crazy that person is
insane and i think we all know
i think we all know how to regard those
claims
with skepticism we have to
cross-examine our own friends and
co-workers this isn't just something to
do with celebrities and social media
it's something that comes up
in daily life but how do we cope
when somebody describes themselves as
insane
if someone tells you that they have
post-traumatic stress disorder
and that this was caused by their
husband or this was caused by their wife
and that in fact precisely the topic
on which their eyewitness testimony is
completely unreliable
inadmissible in a court of law is this
trauma
that's the source of their complex ptsd
how then do we cope with what they're
telling us
right if you take a moment to look up
what the symptoms
are for ptsd
definitionally if ptsd is a real thing
and if someone really has ptsd then we
can't trust
what they're telling us about the source
or cause of the ptsd
and the extent to which they may be an
unreliable witness
on any topic whatsoever really deserves
to be asked
insanity is serious
it has become trivialized in popular
culture in the 21st century
because there are so many false and
shallow
and insincere claims of insanity i'm not
talking about one person accusing the
other i'm talking about people accusing
or recusing
themselves as insane
i had a friend who was married to a
completely
normal rational able-bodied woman
they ran a small business together they
lived in several different cities around
the world together i never met her
but i saw photographs of them together
like they came up when this guy was
showing me photos of of his life
i think they were together for ten years
say i forget how many years was a long
marriage
she went insane
she was given the same legal status
as someone who was catatonic
it's not a mental disability we're not
talking about retardation here
we're we're not talking about a learning
disability this is someone who
completed her high school and college
education had a job led an active life
right and she descended into insanity
to a point where she couldn't brush her
own teeth
she couldn't cook her own meals she
couldn't answer a question
she couldn't read and sign a legal
document she could not be responsible
for anything in her own life
she lived in a care home with helpers
who helped her
feed herself clothe herself etc okay
this is insanity we're talking about
this is the type of person
who in a court of law would not be found
to be responsible
for their actions and a whole series of
experts had to come into court and
testify
yes this woman is so genuinely insane
that she has the same status as someone
who is catatonic we can't even present
her with a legal document
and talk to her and get her to accept a
lawyer to represent her
nothing is possible this woman cannot
speak on her own behalf
that's how sounds anxious do you know
why she went insane
jealousy she was infertile
formally diagnosed as such didn't just
have difficulty she went and had all the
tests done
and the doctor said nope you are 100
incapable of conceiving and having a
child
and her identical twin sister
was fertile got pregnant and had a
healthy baby
she was insanely jealous of her own
twin sister and she descended to that
point
where she couldn't do her own laundry
brush her own teeth
insanity is real okay people being
incapable of testifying in court or
their testimony being discarded
or people getting away with murder
because they're this insane if this
woman
is in this totally disassociated state
state and grabs a knife and stabs
someone
right she will not be responsible for
murder
this is real insanity the problem is
today
people try again and again and again to
get away with murder
or to at least get their sentence
reduced
through insincere claims of ptsd
post-traumatic stressor this is a lawyer
i did quite a bit of research
on him for a chapter of my forthcoming
book
no more manifestos very interesting case
he brushed his teeth
this morning right he did his hair he
was claiming that he had
ptsd and that he should not be punished
no not for murder not anything like that
he happy murder just transpires in a few
moments on one particular day most of
the time
no no nothing like that he was trying to
get away with
making a series of mean comments
anonymously on the internet
over several months and as it happens
those anonymous comments
had a disastrous effect on an ongoing
court case
ptsd the allegations
currently circling around joss whedon
began with a statement from his ex-wife
his ex-wife doesn't just claim to be
suffering from
complex ptsd she claims that the cause
of her ptsd is her husband's
infidelity the cause according to her
is that he lied to her over many years
about many love affairs with many women
some of whom may or may not have been
actresses on the tv shows and movies he
directed
it gets real vague at that point if
this diagnosis of complex ptsd
is valid if it's real
inasmuch as ptsd is a real condition
with the list of symptoms that's agreed
upon
that would mean by definition
her testimony about what her husband
did and did not do is not admissible in
a court of law
charisma carpenter also has claimed
vaguely painfully vaguely
to have some kind of ongoing
physically real painful condition
as a result of the psychological damage
done to her
by joss whedon's bad behavior on set
i think quite intentionally we in the
audience are being led to imagine that
it is something like
ptsd that still haunts her we're living
through
a very dangerous period of time
where people are accusing themselves
of being crazy people are boasting
of being debilitated with this really
serious disorder ptsd
a disorder that you can use in court to
get away
with murder they're boasting of it to
make themselves
seem like victims on the internet and
basically to get the audience to
credulously uncritically accept whatever
allegations or complaints they present
well at the same time we in the audience
don't know how to respond with
skepticism
not when the accusation is of one person
against another
claiming that they're insane but instead
when it's someone
claiming to be insane themselves
in order to destroy and discredit
another person
who is named in a cause and effect
manner
as the reason for their own present
and ongoing insanity i do not
sympathize with joss whedon i
utterly despise joss whedon
what i'm concerned about is the future
of the concept
of ptsd i'm concerned about the future
of legal responsibility and in a sense
i'm concerned about the future of
sanity as ridiculous as the claims of
insanity
presented by lawyer sal perricone may be
let's just consider that he was able to
list off dozens and dozens of incredibly
violent and traumatizing events in his
life
he was able to list off events involving
guns
and knives and law enforcement he was
able to basically point to a personal
history
littered with events any one of which
could be sufficient
to cause lifelong complex ptsd
the problem is we never can in this way
have an objective domino-like cause and
effect
between an objective experience and
someone's subjective breakdown
i do not think that joss whedon's
ex-wife
is the only woman in hollywood to marry
a
multi-millionaire and later discover
that he had been sleeping with other
women i just don't think
it's all that uncommon an experience
i'm not saying it's good i'm not
justifying it but
isn't it a remarkable thing for one
person to claim
that they went insane that they
lost their minds that they now have
complex ptsd
and it's your fault it's your fault
because you had a love affair with
someone else
how many women are there who are
identical twins who couldn't have a baby
and their twin did have a baby
and they just cope they just get over it
or maybe they're even happy for their
twin and they participate in raising
their kid they can be a good aunt even
though they can't be a good mother
maybe it's the most wonderful thing in
their lives they think hey i couldn't
get pregnant you could i'm so happy for
you
let's all have a better life together
there is no way you can blame
that other person as the cause
for that effect the way we have to
measure
sanity and insanity the way we have to
a claim that somebody's husband cheating
on them cause them ptsd
right is gonna have to be through
objectively real
verifiable criteria ultimately
i don't believe that sao para kone is
insane because i've read
the mean comments he made on the
internet just the level of
cognitive function he would have needed
to have to be reading these articles and
following the court case and making the
mean comments
i don't believe it because i can see he
managed to put that suit and tie on this
morning that he's really got his whole
life together
there's just no evidence here whereby i
could say that his claims of having ptsd
are real even though he's able to point
you numerous trauma in his life that
could have
for someone else resulted in
debilitating lifelong insanity
how can it be that social media
has become a competition to see who
can be morally superior to whom in which
the
ultimate weapon in which the nuclear
option
is for people to declare themselves the
victim suffering
from ptsd and why
because it's your fault
[Music]
maybe we can we can practice